federalist number three the same subject
continued
by john jay it is not a new observation
that the people of any country
if like the americans intelligent and
well-informed
seldom adopt and steadily persevere for
many years in an erroneous opinion
respecting their interests
that consideration naturally tends to
create great respect for their high
opinion which the people of america have
so long and uniformly entertained of the
importance of their continuing firmly
united under one federal government
vested with sufficient powers for all
general and national purposes
the more attentively i consider and
investigate the reasons which appear to
have given birth to this opinion
the more i've become convinced that they
are cogent and conclusive
among the many objects to which a wise
and free people find it necessary to
direct their attention that of
providing for their safety seems to be
at first
the safety of the people doubtless has
relation to a great variety of
circumstances and considerations and
consequently affords great latitude to
those who wish to define it precisely
and comprehensively
at present i mean only to consider it as
it respects security for the
preservation of peace and tranquility
as well as against dangers from foreign
arms and influence
as from dangers of the like kind arising
from domestic causes
as the former of these comes first in
order it is proper it should be first
discussed
let us therefore proceed to examine
whether the people are not right in
their opinion that a cordial union under
an efficient national government
affords them the best security that can
be devised against hostilities from
abroad
the number of wars which have happened
or will happen in the world will always
be found to be in proportion to the
number and weight of the causes
whether real or pretended which provoke
or invite them
if this remark be just it becomes useful
to inquire whether so many just causes
of war are likely to be given by united
america
as by disunited america for if it should
turn out that united america will
probably give the fewest
then init will follow that in this
respect the union tends most to preserve
the people in a state of peace with
other nations
the just causes for war for the most
part arise either from violations of
treaties or from direct violence
america has already formed treaties with
no less than six foreign nations
and all of them except prussia are
maritime and therefore
able to annoy and injure us she has also
extensive commerce with portugal spain
and britain
and with respect to the two latter has
in addition the circumstances of
neighborhood to attend to
it is of high importance to the peace of
america that she observed the laws of
nations towards all these powers
and to me it appears evident that this
will be more perfectly and punctually
done
by one national government than it could
be either by 13 separate states
or by three or four distinct
confederacies for this opinion various
reasons may be assigned
when once an efficient national
government is established the best men
in the country will not only consent to
serve
but also will generally be appointed to
manage it four although town or country
or other contracted influence may place
men
in state assemblies or senates or courts
of justice or executive departments
yet more general and extensive
reputation for talents and other
qualifications will be necessary to
recommend
men to offices under the national
government especially as it will have
the widest field for choice
and never experience that want of proper
persons which is not uncommon in some of
the states
hence it will result that the
administration the political councils
and the judicial decisions of the
national government will be more wise
systematical and judicious
than those of individual states and
consequently more satisfactory with
respect to other nations as well as more
safe with respect to us
under the national government treaties
and articles of treaties as well as the
laws of nations
will always be expounded in one sense
and executed in the same manner
whereas adjudication on the same points
in questions in 13 states or in three or
four confederacies
will not always accord or be consistent
and that as well from the variety of
independent courts and judges appointed
by different and independent governments
as from the local different laws and
interests which may affect and influence
them
the wisdom of the convention in
committing such questions to the
jurisdiction and judgment of courts
appointed by and responsible
only to one national government cannot
be too much commended
the prospect of present loss or
advantage may often tempt the governing
party in one or two states to swerve
from good faith and justice but those
temptations not reaching the other
states and consequently having little or
no influence on the national government
the temptation will be fruitless and
good faith and justice be preserved
the case of the treaty of peace with
britain adds great weight to this
reasoning
if even the governing party in a state
should be disposed to resist such
temptations
yet as such temptations may and commonly
do result from circumstances peculiar to
the state
and may affect a great number of the
inhabitants the governing party may not
always be able if willing to prevent the
injustice meditated or to punish the
aggressors
but the national government not being
affected by those local circumstances
will neither be induced to commit the
wrong themselves nor
want power or inclination to prevent or
punish its commission by
others so far therefore as either
designed or accidental violations of
treaties and of the laws of nations
afford just causes of war
they are less to be apprehended under
one general government than
under several lesser ones and in that
respect the former most favors the
safety of the people
as to those just causes of war which
proceed from direct and unlawful
violence it appears equally clear to me
that one good national government
affords vastly more security against
dangers of that sort than can be derived
from any other quarter
such violences are more frequently
occasioned by the passions and interests
of a part
than of the whole of one or two states
than of the union
not a single indian war has yet been
produced by aggressions of the present
federal government
feeble as it is but there are several
instances of indian hostilities having
been provoked by the improper conduct of
individual states
who either unable or unwilling to
restrain or punish offenses
have given occasion to the slaughter of
many innocent inhabitants
the neighborhood of spanish and british
territories bordering on some states and
not on others
naturally confines the causes of quarrel
more immediately to the borderers
the bordering states if any will be
those who under the impulse of sudden
irritation
and a quick sense of apparent interest
or injury will be most likely by direct
violence to excite war with those
nations
and nothing can so effectually obviate
that danger as a national government
whose wisdom and prudence will not be
diminished by the passions which actuate
the parties immediately interested
but not only fewer just causes of war
will be given by the national government
but it will also be more in their power
to accommodate and settle them amicably
they will be more temperate and cool and
in that respect as well as in others
will be more in capacity to act with
circumspection than the offending state
the pride of states as well as of men
naturally disposes them to justify all
their actions and opposes their
acknowledging
correcting or repairing their errors and
offenses the national government in such
cases will not be affected by this pride
but will proceed with moderation and
candor to consider and decide on the
means
most proper to extricate them from the
difficulties which threaten them
besides it is well known that
acknowledgements explanations and
compensations are often accepted as
satisfactory from a strong united nation
which would be rejected as
unsatisfactory if offered by a state or
confederacy of little consideration or
power
in the year 1685 the state of genoa
having offended louis xiv
endeavoured to appease him he demanded
that they should send their doge or
chief magistrate accompanied by four of
their senators to france to ask his
pardon and receive his terms
they were obliged to submit to it for
the sake of peace
would he on any occasion either have
demanded or have received to like
humiliation from spain or britain
or any other powerful nation publius